---
slug: release-0-4-0
title: Release 0.4.0
authors: florez
tags: [update, release]
---

Introduced globally unique identifiers for each database. They are stored as a file in the database directory. 
This allows to safely link different simulations together, e.g. meshes from a mesh database that are used in many places. Also, it allows to access any database from any path without remembering where it is stored. To do so, an index is maintained at `~.config/bamboost` which contains all previously accessed databases.

Also introduced nice reprs for a database and for a simulation inside jupyter notebooks :smile: 

In addition, some internal things were optimized (don't remember what exactly).
Hopefully, nothing was broken. Testing is still to do.

<!--truncate-->

#### Simulation
Try the new nice repr in notebooks :)

**New methods:**
- `fromUID(full_uid: str)`: return simulation object from its full id
- `show_files()`: print the content of the simulation folder
- `show_h5tree()`: print the h5 file's structure
- `open_in_file_explorer()`: open the simulations folder in the default file explorer (linux only)
- `get_full_uid()`: returns the full id of the simulation (including the id of the database)

**New attributes:**
- `links`: Accessor to a mutable group in the h5 file to store and access linked simulations

#### Manager
Try the new nice repr in notebooks :)

**New attributes:**
- `fromUID`: access a database from anywhere by its UID (key completion shows known databases)
- `fromName`: access databases by name/path (key completion shows known databases)
- `FIX_DF`: new toggle. if set to false, the pandas dataframe will be reconstructed each time it is accessed.

#### Index
New module to manage the index of known databases, and finding them.
